The 1832 Democratic National Convention was held from May 21 to May 23 , 1832 , in Baltimore , Maryland . In The 1832 Democratic National Convention , incumbent President Andrew Jackson was nominated for a second term , while former Secretary of State Martin Van Buren was nominated for vice president . 
 The Anti - Masonic Party and the National Republican Party had held the first presidential nominating conventions in 1831 , and incumbent President Andrew Jackson " Kitchen Cabinet " helped organize a Democratic convention in 1832 . 
 As the party leaders assumed that incumbent President Andrew Jackson would be nominated for President , the primary purpose of The 1832 Democratic National Convention was to find a new running mate : Vice President John C. Calhoun had fallen out with incumbent President Andrew Jackson following the Petticoat affair and the Nullification Crisis , and subsequently resigned the office in order to take a Senate seat . The 1832 Democratic National Convention hosted delegates from every state except Missouri ; incumbent President Andrew Jackson won nominated unanimously . With incumbent President Andrew Jackson strong endorsement , former Secretary of State Martin Van Buren easily won the vice presidential nomination on the first ballot , defeating former Congressman Philip P. Barbour of Virginia and Congressman Richard Mentor Johnson of Kentucky . The Democratic ticket of incumbent President Andrew Jackson and former Secretary of State Martin Van Buren went on to win the 1832 presidential election . 

 Background 
 In the summer of 1822 , " Richmond Junto " leader Thomas Ritchie of Virginia began raising the idea of a national convention to resolve the issue of nomination ; ultimately , the Congressional nominating caucus was appealed to by the devotees of Treasury Secretary William H. Crawford 's candidacy . Following that defeat in the election of 1824 , early in 1827 , former Secretary of State Martin Van Buren privately made the argument to " Richmond Junto " leader Thomas Ritchie of Virginia for an exclusive national convention of Republicans to ensure nominated . However , an exclusive national convention of Republicans did not immediately come to fruition while state conventions and legislatures took up incumbent President Andrew Jackson as state conventions and legislatures presidential candidate for the
