Amit Anil Chandra Shah ( born 22 October 1964 ) is an Indian politician currently serving as the Minister of Home Affairs . Amit Anil Chandra Shah served as the President of the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) from 2014 to 2020 . Amit Anil Chandra Shah was elected to the lower house of Parliament , Lok Sabha , in the 2019 Indian general elections from Gandhinagar . Earlier , Amit Anil Chandra Shah had been elected as a member of the upper house of Parliament , Rajya Sabha , from Gujarat in 2017 . Sworn in at the age of 54 , Amit Anil Chandra Shah is the youngest serving full - time Home Minister . Amit Anil Chandra Shah is the chief strategist of the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and a close aide to Narendra Modi . During Amit Anil Chandra Shah college days , Amit Anil Chandra Shah was a member of the ABVP , the student wing of the RSS . At the age of 18 , Amit Anil Chandra Shah secured a position in the ABVP , the student wing of the RSS and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) in 1987 . Amit Anil Chandra Shah was first elected in Gujarat as the MLA for a seat partly covering Ahmedabad , Sarkhej in 1997 ( a by - election ) . Amit Anil Chandra Shah continued to hold a seat partly covering Ahmedabad , Sarkhej in the 1998 , 2002 and 2007 elections until a seat partly covering Ahmedabad , Sarkhej dissolution in 2008 ; Amit Anil Chandra Shah then got elected from the nearby Naranpura in 2012 . As a close associate of Chief Minister Narendra Modi , Amit Anil Chandra Shah held executive portfolios in the Gujarat state government . 
 Amit Anil Chandra Shah was the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) in - charge for India 's largest and politically most crucial state , Uttar Pradesh , during the 2014 the lower house of Parliament , Lok Sabha , elections . the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) allies won 73 out of 80 seats . As a result , Amit Anil Chandra Shah rose to national prominence and was appointed as the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) national president in July 2014.He has played an organizing and membership - promotional role in the elections of many states since 2014 . In Amit Anil Chandra Shah initial two years , the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) achieved success in Legislative Assembly elections in Maharashtra , Haryana , Jammu and Kashmir , Jharkhand and Assam but lost ground in Delhi and the large eastern state of Bihar in 2015 . 
 In 2017 , Amit Anil Chandra Shah was partly credited with the the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) victories in India 's largest and politically most crucial state , Uttar Pradesh , Uttarakhand , Gujarat and Manipur , but the Akali - the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) alliance lost power in the larger Punjab election . In 2018 , the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) lost power in the states of Chhattisgarh , Rajasthan.
